Pray for Manuel and Maria, if you will,
and with their health, if you would,
just be in mind to pray for them regularly.
I know they'd certainly appreciate that.
Pray for Norma Jean as well, and she is home,
and so we're thankful that she's in rehab
for like a long time, but she's home now,
so we praise the Lord for that,
and I want you to pray for those that are traveling as well,
a number of folks traveling this week.
If you have your Bible with you,
Ephesians chapter number six,
Ephesians chapter number six this morning,
and we are thankful to have a Bible,
thankful for every book of the Bible,
and thankful for every word of the Bible.
Every word of God is pure.
We understand all scripture is given by inspiration of God,
and I'm thankful that God gave his word by inspiration,
and he has providentially preserved his word for us,
and we can hold this book in our laps this morning
and know with confidence that God has given us
exactly what we need,
and I'm so thankful and so blessed to have a Bible.
We understand as we study the scriptures
that our God is eternal, and our God is omniscient.
What that means is that God has no beginning and no ending.
He is the alpha and the omega.
When we see that he's omniscient,
it means that he has all wisdom, he knows all things.
There's nothing that has ever occurred to our God.
He knows everything.
He knows everything about you and about me.
He knows everything about the ages,
and I'm thankful to serve a God who is eternal
and who is omniscient.
By the way, we could go on and on and on
with all of his attributes,
but we understand as we look at this passage of scripture
this morning, the importance of focusing
on those two truths this morning,
because we understand that these truths,
the fact that God is eternal, that God is omniscient,
should cause every child of God to have comfort,
joy, and peace, that our God,
listen, there's some people today that say
we need something that's more relevant.
You can't get more relevant than an eternal God, amen?
He's alpha and omega, and it's 2026.
Yes, God is outside of time.
He's eternal, and he's given us a word
that is for every generation,
and that's why he said he would preserve it
for every generation, and we begin to think about the fact
that God knows all things, and God knows,
and he was aware of the fact that his people
would be engaged in spiritual battle, spiritual warfare,
and we find that he knew that the last days
would be marked with wickedness and with deception.
He knew all of these things,
and we find that he's provided us with instruction.
He's provided us with a roadmap, if you will,
for how we're to live and how we can please him.
We understand, as Peter would say it in 2 Peter,
that God hath given to us all things
that pertain unto life and godliness,
and there are times in which we understand
as we live in this particular era of human history,
we see things that are taking place,
and we may scratch our heads, and we say,
why is this happening, or why is that happening?
I never saw this happening.
I never thought it would be like this.
God knew exactly.
In fact, he tells Timothy, Paul does,
in the last days, he said that evil men and seducers
shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived.
He tells Timothy to preach the word,
be instant, in season, out of season,
reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering
and doctrine, for the time will come
when they will not endure sound doctrine
in 2 Timothy chapter number four,
and we understand that we live in such a time,
but God has given us instruction.
He said, continue.
Continue in the things that thou hast heard
and has been assured of,
knowing of whom thou hast learned them,
and we understand that the scriptures,
he says that from a child,
thou hast known the holy scriptures,
which are able to make thee wise unto salvation.
We think about that last song that we sang,
not the choir, but the congregational, and can it be,
and thinking about the fourth verse,
and the fact that our chains fell off
when we were made free
through the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ,
and I'm so thankful for the sacrifice
that Christ made on the cross of Calvary,
that he died in your place and in my place
for your sin and for my sin and for the sin of the world,
and he was buried in a borrowed tomb,
and he rose conquering sin, death, and the grave.
He is alive forevermore,
and we find that he is coming again.
I don't know when, but I know he is,
and I'm excited about it,
and we understand this morning
that as we look at the book of Ephesians,
and I have you in the sixth chapter.
There's only six chapters to this particular epistle,
but the apostle Paul,
just to give a little background information
so we can understand what we're dealing with,
the apostle Paul is writing
back to this church at Ephesus,
a church that God allowed him the unique privilege
of being able to see established
during one of his missionary journeys.
There's the apostle Paul,
the servant of the Lord that went forth,
and he was preaching the gospel,
the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ.
This church was established.
We find that if you were to look at the first few chapters
of the book of Ephesians,
particularly in chapter number one,
you find that the apostle Paul
is making it abundantly clear
that he's not only writing to the church at Ephesus,
but the church is made up of saved people.
What do we mean by saved people?
We mean those that have recognized that they are sinners
and that Jesus is the only savior,
and they've placed their faith and trust
in the finished work of Christ at Calvary,
understanding that their sin carries with it
a penalty, a price.
The Bible says the wages of sin is death,
but the gift of God is eternal life
through Jesus Christ, our Lord.
And these individuals at Ephesus,
they heard the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ,
and they professed faith in Christ.
The Bible says,
for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord
shall be saved.
And I'm so thankful that about 28, 29 years ago,
someone shared the gospel with me,
and I bowed my head and trusted Christ as my savior,
and I know that I'm saved and I'm going to heaven.
The Bible says,
these things have I written unto you
that believe in the name of the Son of God,
that you may know that you have eternal life.
Jesus said,
my sheep hear my voice and I know them
and I give unto them eternal life
and they shall never perish.
I'm thankful this morning that I know
that when I take my final breath here on this earth,
that heaven is my home.
And I hope this morning that you too know for sure
that heaven is your home.
I would say this,
if you're not 100% sure,
you say, well, I'd hope so, I think so.
You need to know so,
and if you wanna know for sure,
after the service this morning,
we'll have an opportunity to take a Bible
and show you how you could know for sure
that heaven is your home.
And so the Apostle Paul is writing to this type of people,
people that are saved by the grace of God,
people that are serving God,
people that are seeking to live for God,
and he's writing to these individuals.
And as we understand here in the text of scripture,
I'll read for you where I got our title this morning
from verse number 13.
Wherefore, take unto you the whole armor of God
that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day
and having done all to stand.
The plan this morning is to preach from verses 10 through 18
the title of the message,
as you've seen on the back of the bulletin is this,
that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day.
The reality is that God knew and God knows all things
and he knew exactly what we would encounter in 2026.
He knew the things that we would face
and though I often hear people
and even some of you have shared with me,
I never thought it would be like this pastor.
I remember when I was growing up pastor
and I remember this and I remember that
and I just get, listen,
God knew exactly what we'd be facing in July of 2026.
He knew what we'd be facing in this place at this time
and he's given us instruction
so that we could know how to live and how to please him
and how that we can withstand in the evil day,
that we could withstand in the evil day.
Notice in the text of scripture, if you will,
if you're taking notes, just two points this morning,
they're a little bit more lengthy, but just two points.
Number one is this, God's plan for his people,
God's plan for his people.
Notice as we read through the text of scripture,
the Bible says in verse number 10,
finally, finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord
and in the power of his might,
put on the whole armor of God
that you may be able to stand against the wiles
of the devil, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood,
but against principalities, against powers,
against the rulers of the darkness of this world,
against spiritual wickedness in high places.
Verse 13, wherefore, take unto you the whole armor of God
that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day
and having done all to stand.
Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth
and having on the breastplate of righteousness
and your feet shod with the preparation
of the gospel of peace,
above all, taking the shield of faith.
wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked,
and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit,
which is the word of God,
praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit,
and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints.
As we look at these verses of Scripture, what is God's plan for His people?
Well, four thoughts for you this morning as to what God's plan is for His people.
Number one, from verse number 11,
it is God's plan that His people would be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
Listen, understand with me this morning that we have a real enemy.
We understand this morning that there are many times in which we can look from a national perspective,
and yes, yesterday we celebrated our anniversary and our independence,
and I'm so thankful to be an American,
but we understand this morning that we face a far greater enemy than anything you can consider
from a national perspective.
As a child of the King, as a son of the living God,
we have an enemy, and he is the devil.
The Bible tells us, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil,
he walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour.
And the plan that God has for His people
is that we would be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
We see it at the end of verse number 11,
that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
That word wiles, it means to be deceitful, to be crafty, to be tricky.
And we find that the enemy, listen, he is deceitful, he is the father of lies.
He comes to steal and to destroy and to kill.
And we find here today that God's plan for His people
is that we would be able to stand against the wiles of the enemy,
the wiles of the devil.
That we would be able to live in victory,
that we'd have the opportunity to not be in that place of being devoured
or destroyed by the enemy.
Listen, if you knew this morning that someone physically,
that someone humanly speaking,
that you had some knowledge that they were living
and trying to carry out to do harm to you,
there's some certain things you would do.
You would change some of your behaviors.
You would provide some protections and various things that you would do.
But I want you to understand here this morning that you have an enemy.
Brother John, who are you looking for?
Okay.
So we have an enemy.
And we understand this morning that God's plan
is that we would be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
Number two, what is His plan for His people?
According to verse number 13, as we've used as our text title this morning,
His plan is that we would withstand in the evil day.
That we, notice he says, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day.
That word withstand, it means truly to resist or to oppose.
And you think about the wickedness,
you think about all the things in the evil day,
and just the verbiage that God uses.
And He wants His people, His plan for His people
is that we would be able to withstand in the evil day.
Not to cave in, not to compromise, not to change.
No, but to stand, to withstand, to oppose and to resist.
Listen, we live in a time in which there's so many things changing.
But we serve a God who is immutable, He never changes.
We have a God that not only is He immutable,
but He has given us a word that the Bible says is forever settled in heaven.
He tells us that the heaven and earth will pass,
but not one jot or tittle will pass.
And we understand that God has given us the truth,
and He's given us His word,
and He wants us in this evil day to withstand.
That's God's plan.
God's plan number three is to stand.
We see it in verse 13.
Again, in verse 14, it ends verse 13,
and having done all to stand.
Stand therefore.
Listen, it's time for God's people to stand up.
Stand up for righteousness, stand up for God.
Listen, there's a whole group of people that are standing up for their cause,
that are standing up for their insanity,
and the reality is that we have the truth of God's word,
we have the eternal truth of God's word,
and God's people, it is God's plan that His people will stand.
Will stand.
Will stand up.
We sing the song, Standing on the Promises.
We understand the importance of standing.
We find that the plan of God, number four,
as we look at the text of scripture from verse number 16, I'd say this,
that God's plan for His people is that we would be able to quench
all the fiery darts of the wicked.
He says in verse 16,
and above all taking the shield of faith,
wherewith, notice,
ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.
The enemy is shooting a lot of fiery darts.
Seems as if it's just a barrage,
they just keep coming, wave after wave,
of these fiery darts.
But God doesn't say that we shall be able to quench
most of the fiery darts of the wicked.
He says that you may be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.
And again, as we look at the text of scripture,
God's plan for His people in 2026
is that we'd be able to stand against the wiles of the devil,
that we would withstand an evil day,
that we'd stand and that we'd quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.
It is not God's plan that His people would be in a state of retreat.
Amen?
It's not time to run for the hills. It's not time to retreat.
It's not time to give up and give in and lay down and play dead.
No, it's time to stand.
That's God's plan. We're not defeated.
He doesn't want us to be defeated.
I'm mindful of the fact that we are on the winning side.
Aren't you thankful for that?
I'm thankful for the great song, Victory in Jesus. Amen?
Listen, we are more than conquerors through Christ.
The Bible says, but thanks be to God,
which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
And we understand that we're not to be discouraged,
we're not to be fearful, and we're not to retreat in this evil day.
And as we look at the Scriptures and we begin to understand,
and not only here in the book of Ephesians,
but as I referenced by way of introduction, the book of 2 Timothy,
and as the Apostle Paul is instructing Timothy, and he says, continue.
He tells him to continue to go forward and to preach
and to do what he's supposed to do.
Listen, in the midst of being in the evil days,
in the midst of the last days, the perilous times,
and all the things that are categorized and explained to us,
God says, continue.
Just continue.
And we find God's plan for his people.
Now I'm thankful that God not only has a plan,
but I'm thankful that God, number two, God's provision for his people.
You know, I'm thankful that our God not only explains to us
and reveals to us his plan,
but he provides everything we need to fulfill his plan.
He didn't tell you and he didn't tell me
to withstand in the evil day and just kind of figure that out, what that means.
that we would be able to quench all the fiery darts,
but go figure out what that means.
See, he reveals to us his plan,
but he also provides everything that we need.
We find that he has given us, as we mentioned already,
from the record of 2 Peter chapter 1,
that he's given us all things that pertain unto life and godliness.
I'm thankful that he's given us, as you understand,
even in the first chapter of the book of Ephesians,
if you're saved, the Holy Spirit of God lives within you.
That moment that you trust in Christ as your Savior,
your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost,
which is in you, which you have of God.
And what a blessing to know that the Holy Spirit
is the earnest of our inheritance,
that we're sealed into the day of redemption.
Praise God for that.
He's given us a Bible, the Word of God.
In this book, he's given us the instruction that we need,
all the provision that we need.
Remember what he said to the disciples?
They were dealing with all the instruction
and all that Christ was providing them before he would go to Calvary.
And he said, it's expedient for you that I go away.
Not only would he fulfill redemption's plan on the cross of Calvary,
but we find that he promised that he would send the Comforter,
the Holy Spirit, the Holy Ghost.
And so we begin to think about God's provision for his people.
We rejoice in understanding in verse number 10,
if we think about his provision, the first aspect
is that he's provided for us the strength
and the might and the power that we need.
The Bible says this, finally, my brethren,
again in Ephesians 6 and verse number 10,
notice what he says, finally, my brethren,
be strong, notice, in the Lord,
and in the power of his might.
Do you know that your flesh is weak?
My flesh is weak.
Do you know that we are no match for the enemy in our own flesh?
Amen?
Michael disputing with the devil, he said,
Lord rebuke thee, Jude, verse number nine. Greater is he that is in you than he that
is in the world. Amen? He didn't say greater are you, he said greater is he that is in
you. And we find that here as the Lord is providing to this group of believers, yes
his plan, but he talks about his provision. I'm thankful that we understand that Jesus
said even to his disciples before he ascended to heaven, ye shall receive power after that
the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and
all Judea and Samaria and under the uttermost part of the earth. Listen, we need God's power.
We need God's power. And we find that we have his strength. We understand that the
Apostle Paul in 2 Corinthians chapter number four, he talks about having this ministry
but we faint not. And he talks about the outward man perishing but the inward man is renewed
day by day. That's the strength that we find that we need for the spiritual battle that
we're engaged in. If you're going to go into battle, nation against nation, you understand
that you look for some strong individuals that can go into battle. If you're signed
up, if you're enlisted in one of our armed forces and you're in one of the branches of
the military, there are certain levels of requirement physically that you have to meet.
Why? Because they want some people that have some strength physically. But oh, for God's
people, as soldiers in the Lord's army, may it be known that it's not about the physical
strength that we might possess, but it's the spiritual strength, it's his strength, it's
his might, it's his power. Remember what Paul said, I say Paul said it, the Lord said it
to Paul, as Paul is recording and writing to the church in Corinth, he says that God
told him after he'd prayed about that thorn in the flesh, he said, my grace is sufficient
for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. You know what God's provided
for you and what God's provided for me? As we read in verse number 10, be strong in the
Lord and in the power of his might. I'm so thankful that it's not about your strength
or my strength, it's about him working through us. It's about the power and the strength
and the might that he gives us. We find not only is his provision in giving us the strength
and the might and the power that we need, but we find that I would say as we look at
the text of Scripture and look at verse 12, we'll come back to verse 11 in just a moment,
but I want you to see that he's given us truth with regard to the situation. You know what's
important for us? To know the truth. It's important for us to know that we're engaged
in spiritual battle. I believe it was Tozer that said the Christian life is more, is better
described as being a battlefield, not a playground. How true is that? And we find that in verse
number 12, the Bible tells us we wrestle not, notice what it says, against flesh and blood,
but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this
world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. We live in a time in which people
would like to describe what's going on in America and not only in this particular year,
but in a number of years in this kind of generation that we're engaged in some type of cultural
wars and this type of things. Listen, I want you to understand that it's a spiritual war.
That's what we're engaged in. And as we look at verse number 12, really as the outline
is provided there, and he says that we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against,
and he lists out principalities, powers, rulers of the darkness of this world, spiritual wickedness
in high places. This is the fallen devils, the demons that fell, those angels that followed
Lucifer when he was cast out of heaven. And a third of those angels went with them and
they're referred to as being demons. And we find that those, and listen, there's a structure
that they have. We see it here in verse number 12. They're an organized force, but they're
a defeated force. But listen, I'm thankful that God's given us the truth that we're engaged
in battle. That we're engaged in battle. I guarantee you, I guarantee you that if you
lived in the capital of Ukraine right now, you would live different than you live right
here in Fairfax County, Virginia. I guarantee you, you would live different. There are other
places around planet earth that we could reference this morning that would cause you to live
different as well, but if you heard bombs coming in, missiles coming in, drones flying
in, all the things that are taking place, you'd live differently. Why? Because you'd
be aware of the fact that you're at war, you're at battle. You'd do something different, would
you not? But yet every day we're engaged in spiritual battle. Spiritual battle. You know
sadly as we think about the provision of God, the third point that he gives us here, sadly
many people that are engaged in the spiritual battle don't even ever think about putting
on the armor of God. But that's the provision that God has given. Number three, we see that
not only has he given us his strength and his might, the truth regarding the situation,
but he's given us the armor. Notice what he says in verse number 11, put on the whole
armor of God. Notice what he says in verse 13, wherefore take unto you the whole armor
of God. We think about those phrases in verse 11 and verse 13, the whole armor of God. I
want to submit to you this morning that every piece is vital. Every piece is vital. And
we're going to go through what they are as we list them out in verses 14 through 18 and
begin to see the armor of God. This is God's provision for his people that are engaged
in this battle. And God says listen, I want you as my people, my plan for you is that
you would stand against the wiles of the devil, that you would withstand in the evil day,
that you would quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. But I want you to understand
that my provision is given to you and if you don't put on the whole armor of God, then
you become a casualty. You become a casualty. And so whose responsibility is it to put on
the whole armor of God? Yours and mine. I can't put on your armor, you can't put on
my armor. Do you recognize, again as we think about the physical battles in which we could
make relative analogies and examples of and we can think back there to David in 1 Samuel
chapter 17 when he's going to go and fight against Goliath. David is there and he's there
because his father sent him to go and he's simply obeying and following the instruction
that he's received. And here's Goliath come out and defy the armies of God and curse his
God. David through some interaction there eventually says, is there not a cause? And
he volunteers, I'll go and fight against this giant, this uncircumcised Philistine. Who
is he to curse our God? Remember Saul, he's the king. Him and all the other men of Israel,
they're afraid. And Saul says, David you need some armor. You take these things. And David
says, I've not proved them. But you know what David knew? He knew about God. And we think
about that example in 1 Samuel 17 and we look here and I use that with regard to the recognition
that in physical conflict there's this understanding of armor. Here God specifically tells his
people to put on the whole armor of God. Every piece is vital. Notice in verse number 14
as we begin to look through what these pieces of armor are and how we would put them on.
And obviously there was some example here and some opportunity for these original recipients
to be able to relate to the Roman soldiers and how they would have their armor on. And
here it says in verse number 14, having your loins girt about with truth. Truth. When he
talks about your loins girt about, it's kind of like that belt, if you will. And can I
say it this way? Truth is what we need that holds everything else in place. See we live
in a time today where there are people in high places that would like to convince the
populace that truth is relative. But truth is not relative. There is truth. By the way,
Jesus is truth. He said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the
Father but by me. We understand the Bible is truth. Sanctify them through thy word.
Thy word is truth. But there's a group of people, many groups of people that are trying
to, well your truth and their truth and they can, no, no, no, there's just truth. And truth
stands. And it's truth that holds everything else together. That's why it's so important
that we know the truth. That's why it's so important. He said the truth I preached a
few weeks ago on the Sunday there around Memorial Day in John chapter 8. The truth shall make
you free.
The truth.
And I'm thankful this morning to have the truth.
And he says that our loins are to be girt about with truth
and that we would know truth,
that we'd be in the word of God.
Listen, the most important thing for you and for me
is to know truth, why?
Because remember the wiles of the devil.
Remember the fact that he's crafty and he's tricky
and he comes forth and listen, he's deceitful.
You know, the hardest lie to detect is the half lie.
Partial truth.
I stood out here just the other day,
Holly and I were going for a walk
and we went to go on a walk
and we engaged a couple of young men
that were out peddling their false teaching.
And they tried to engage in conversation with us
and I was more than happy to chat with them.
But I want you to tell you,
I wanna tell you now I know a whole lot more
about their cult than they thought I did.
Until I told them how much I knew about their cult,
but that was a little bit later in the conversation.
But I said to them, I said, here's the real question.
Jesus asked this, he took his disciples to Caesarea Philippi
and he said, whom do men say that I am?
And then he said, who do you say that I am?
And he said, that question is the question
that still needs to be answered today.
Who is Jesus?
I'm gonna tell you exactly what they told me.
They're a cult.
And they said, Jesus is the Messiah who died for my sins.
That's not what they believe, but that's what they said.
You know how many people they're deceiving?
And I looked at him and I said, really?
And they said, yeah.
I said, well, you don't really believe that, do you?
He said, what do you mean?
I said, well, you actually believe
that Jesus is a created being, that he's an angel
and he's the brother of Lucifer.
And they said, well, it's a little bit different
than being the Messiah that died for my sins.
You understand what I'm saying?
Why do I say that to you?
Because there's deception.
We need truth.
We have truth.
Your loins gird about with truth.
I'm so thankful that God's given us the armor.
Number two, second piece of armor.
Notice in verse number 15, he says,
or sorry, still in verse number 14,
and having on the breastplate of righteousness.
Listen, I'm so thankful that he hath made him
to be sin for us who knew no sin
that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.
Listen, I understand it's not by my own works
of righteousness.
It's all because of God's grace and God's mercy.
But can I remind you that Titus chapter two
in verse number 12 teaches us,
in verse number 11, it says,
for the grace of God that bringeth salvation
hath appeared to all men,
teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts,
we should live soberly, righteously,
and godly in this present world.
And we think about this idea of a breastplate
of righteousness and understanding again
that it's his righteousness that's been imputed
upon my account and upon your account.
But you think about the breastplate
and how important it was for the Roman soldier
and how important it would protect those vital organs.
Listen, I'm thankful for Christ's righteousness
and we're to put on not only to have our loins
girded about with truth,
but the breastplate of righteousness in verse 15,
he says, and your feet shod with the preparation
of the gospel of peace.
The Roman soldiers would wear boots and those,
sorry, sandals, and those sandals that they would wear
were almost like boots, if you will,
that had spikes on the bottom of them.
And we find that he tells us that we're to have our feet
shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace.
Remember, as we referenced the portion of scripture
a few weeks ago in Romans chapter number one,
when the apostle Paul says that he was ready
to preach the gospel to them that are at Rome also.
And that idea of being ready, of being prepared,
of being able to go out and preach the gospel, why?
For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ,
for it is the power of God unto salvation
to everyone that believe it, to the Jew first
and also to the Greek.
And we find that we have that important aspect
of having our feet shod with the preparation
of the gospel of peace.
And I understand from this verse of scripture
that it's not just that as believers,
we put on the whole armor of God
and we have kind of this defensive position.
No, to have our feet shod with the preparation
of the gospel of peace is that we're to go on the offensive.
We're to go out and to make disciples,
to preach the gospel to every creature, amen.
And we understand that we go forth, onward, forward.
We sing the song with talking about
onward Christian soldiers.
But continue as we referenced already
in 2 Timothy chapter number three.
Number four piece of armor that God has explained to us
in verse number 16, above all, taking the shield of faith.
And he says that that shield of faith, he says,
wherewith ye shall be able to quench
all the fiery darts of the wicked.
Can I tell you this morning that the wicked
is gonna fire his darts,
whether you take your shield or not.
He's firing his darts.
And God tells us above all, taking the shield of faith,
whereby you shall be able to quench
all the fiery darts of the wicked.
That attack comes and you have that shield of faith.
And again, if you think about the imagery
of the Roman soldier and the shields that they would have
and how that would protect them.
And it was used in order to protect them from those arrows.
But oftentimes, even those fiery darts,
they dip those particular arrows in oil
and flammable material and they light them on fire
before they would shoot them.
And the imagery is clear to these first century believers.
And for you and for me this morning,
we must understand the importance of faith.
We've been preaching all year on Wednesdays about faith
and without faith, it's impossible to please him.
But here's what John says in 1 John chapter number five
in verse number four, when we think about this truth
of the shield of faith, he says it this way
in 1 John five in verse number four.
In fact, we sing a song that really comes
from this verse of scripture.
For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world
and this is the victory that overcometh the world,
even our faith.
We sing that song, faith is the victory.
He said, listen, above all, taking the shield of faith.
Number five piece of armor in verse 17
and take the helmet of salvation.
It's kind of interesting that he mentions
the helmet of salvation.
Of course, we understand the importance of a helmet
and the necessity again, every piece of these,
as he says, the whole armor of God,
every piece of armor is vital.
We think about the helmet of salvation.
He's already writing to save people.
Amen, we mentioned that in chapter number one,
but even in verse number 10, he says, finally, my brethren.
So he's writing to save people.
So he talks about putting on the helmet of salvation.
He's not talking about being saved, although they are saved.
He says to put on the helmet of salvation
and really it kind of helps us be mindful of the fact
that we're to be constantly aware of the fact
that we're saved by the grace of God,
that we have that security that's in Christ,
that assurance of our salvation.
I want you to understand there's a great battle
that takes place in the mind.
I want you to understand that the enemy wants to cause you
to doubt that you're saved.
I asked somebody just this week, I said, listen,
the problem is just that you don't believe what God said.
I wasn't being mean when I said it in whatsoever.
I was being extremely kind and gracious,
but I simply said, listen, Jesus, God told us in his word
for whose service shall call upon the name of the Lord
shall be saved and if you did that,
and you believe that he is who he said he is,
and you believe he did what he said he did,
and you believe that you're a sinner
and you accepted him as your personal savior,
then guess what?
He saved you.
Amen.
But the enemy, he's the accuser of the brethren.
He wants you to doubt your salvation.
You know, when you doubt your salvation,
it renders you ineffective.
It really does.
Because if you're doubting your own salvation,
I'm pretty confident you're not gonna be able to go
and tell other people that they can know for sure
that heaven is their home.
Why?
Because you don't even know for sure
that heaven is your home.
You understand what I'm saying?
So that helmet of salvation, listen,
I'm so thankful the Lord is my shepherd.
I'm so thankful.
We're to be reminded of that.
He tells us not only to put on the helmet of salvation
in verse 17, but he says, and the sword of the spirit,
which is the word of God.
Listen, you need to know God's word.
You need to know it, be students of it,
study to show thyself approved unto God,
a workman that need not to be ashamed,
rightly dividing the word of truth.
If you go to the book of Matthew,
you go to the book of Luke,
you'll read in both of those books,
the record of the Lord Jesus Christ being tempted
in the wilderness.
And in each record, you'll find that Jesus
in each temptation, he responds by saying, it is written.
And I want you to understand something very important
about the text of scripture,
that he responds with a verse of.
scripture that is directly related to the temptation
that he's facing.
What does that reveal to us?
Skill in knowing the Word of God.
Listen, it's not enough to just know John 3, 16 and
think that you can quote that.
Look, it's great to quote John 3, 16, but when every
temptation comes in your life, John 3, 16 is not the
verse to quote every single time.
Amen?
I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes.
Praise the Lord.
Right?
When we're thinking about these things and having the
Word of God that's hidden in your heart, listen, it's
the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God,
and we're to use it skillful.
Listen, these soldiers, they had to be able to use
their sword skillfully.
And this morning, we need to know the Word of God, be
students of the Word of God.
We find in verse 18, some include this in the armor,
some do not.
I think it's an error if you don't include it in the
armor.
I think it's vital because in verse 18, he says,
praying always prayer.
Listen, we need to be prayed up.
We need to pray for one another.
It's interesting.
He talks about praying here.
He says, praying always with all prayer and
supplication in the Spirit and watching there unto
with all perseverance and supplication for all
saints, not only prayer for ourselves and and for the
situation, for the battle and all that we're facing.
But he sees or we see clearly in verse 18, the
truth of intercessory prayer for all saints.
In fact, in verse 19, if you were to continue in the
context that Paul says, and for me, and he gives a
specific prayer request for himself that they, the
church at Ephesus, would be in prayer for him with
regard to the fact that he would open his mouth boldly
to make known the mystery of the gospel.
Listen, he would face opposition.
He would face spiritual battle and warfare and
opening his mouth and preaching the gospel.
So what does he do?
Pray for me.
Prayer.
Prayer is so important.
So important.
Such a privilege of a child of God to be able to pray.
To be able to go before the throne of grace, to be
able, as I taught in the Sunday school class this
morning, to be able to pour out our hearts before the
Lord.
Man, what a privilege to know that he hears us and
to know that he answers.
He said, call unto me and I will answer thee and show
thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not.
Listen this morning.
God has a plan for you and he has a plan for me as a
plan for his people in 2026.
And it's not that we'd be discouraged.
It's not that we'd retreat.
It's not that we'd be defeated.
It's that we would be able to stand and to be able to
withstand in the evil day.
That we would be able to quench all the fiery darts
of the wicked.
That we would be able to stand against the wiles of
the devil and he's provided for you and he's provided
for me everything we need to be able to stand.
So the question this morning, are we standing?
Are we standing?
Don't cave in.
Don't compromise.
Don't quit.
Don't give up.
Stand.
That you might be able to withstand in the evil day.
So many things going on in our world today but God's plan
for his people is clearly explained to us in Ephesians
chapter number 6 and he's given to us everything we need.
The provision is there and he wants you and he wants me
to stand.
Let's pray.
Father we love you.
We thank you for loving us.
We thank you for the word of God.
We thank you this morning that we can know your plan for us
even in this evil day.
We thank you that you have given us the provision that we
need and God I pray that you would help us to stand.
Help us to be bold.
Help us to have the right position and the right
disposition.
Lord help us to honor you.
Help us to make a difference in our world.
I pray Father that if there's one here this morning that's
not sure of heaven, we spoke about that a little bit in the
beginning of the service, if they're not sure that heaven is
their home, God I pray that in this moment the Holy Spirit of
God would convict them of their need for Christ.
God I pray that we'd have an opportunity to take a Bible and
show them how they can know for sure that heaven's their home.
Those that are here that are Christians, Lord as we
individually evaluate our lives, would you help us to be
honest about whether we're standing in this evil day,
whether we're daily putting on the whole armor of God,
if we're aware of the fact that we're engaged in spiritual
battle, spiritual warfare.
God help us every day to put on the whole armor of God.
I pray that you'd help us to stand and to be strong in the
power of the Lord.
I pray God that you'd move and work in this moment as only you
can and we'll thank you for it in Christ's name we pray.
Would you stand with me?
Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.
At the end of our service we have an opportunity to have what
we call an invitation and what we do simply is invite you to
respond to God.
Maybe this morning you're not sure of heaven, we'd never
embarrass you but if you don't know for sure that heaven is
your home, if you're a man, Brother Mark is here on my left
and he has a Bible and he'd show you how you could know for sure
that heaven is your home.
If you're a lady, my wife Holly is here on my right and she'll
take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that
heaven is your home.
Please don't leave here without knowing for sure that heaven is
your home.
But then this morning if you're a believer, maybe you just need
to come and ask God to help you, help you to put on the whole
armor of God, help you to stand in this evil day.
However God's spoken to your heart as Kimberly plays,
the altar is open.